One may argue that successful novels depend not so on their plots as they do on the characters they portray .
It is not surprising that political issues do not play a very large role in voters' decisions .
He must have had a very good reason for investing in a scheme which has so little likelihood of success .
She put off replying the letter until she had fully studied the matter and determined the policy to be pursued .
If he knew what the board had decided as regards his promotion , he would be terribly upset .
The late 1970s brought to pop music fusion of radically different geographical and cultural influences .
As long as we can not find his fingerprints on the safe , we have to accept that he is innocent .
If you want to win a man to your cause , you must first convince him that you are his true friend .
Anything that happens anywhere in the world at the moment can produce effects rapidly elsewhere .
Owing to an unexpected postponement in the delivery of the mail , his application did not reach in time .
Einstein did not participate in the development of the bomb , but the idea did stem from his equation E=mc2 .
While most of them do not understand this man's work , everyone knows his impact on the world of science .
The Pentagon has estimated that about 25 percent of the military facilities in the country are unnecessary .
For the first time this century , a summit conference will convene to discuss an issue other than war or the economy .
Anyone who wishes to begin selling industrial goods in a foreign country must first perform market research .
Last fall , Tony Blair announced that he would serve a full five - year term if the Labour Party won .
An orbit in which the satellite travels round the earth once every 24 hours is known as a stationary orbit .
It is very important to understand how words can change their meanings in different contexts .
A system that aims at protecting workers has instead barred millions of them from working .
Ancient Greeks , who did not like the cold whiteness of marble , painted the statues and buildings .
What we really expect to find in a world of art is a certain personal element and a distinctive sensibility .
Several scholars disagree that Jesus lived roughly between 2 BC and about 33 AD .
Advertisers use music to communicate meanings that cannot be effectively put into words .
The progress the country has made in reducing air and water pollution since 1970 is indisputable .
Despite a rise in the interest rates , my brother has closed his account in the bank , and so have I .
The new rock-fill dam , constructed on the Tigris , is strong enough to withstand the most severe earthquakes .
Extra weight puts a strain on the heart and makes you far more prone to a variety of diseases .
I firmly believe that we must put into effect some vital plans in order to increase productivity .
Michael Jordan makes more money from Nike annually than all of the Nike factory workers in Malaysia .
A college education right now is a lot more beneficial to you and your future than you may realize .
The issue under discussion is whether or not British newspapers are fairly priced .
In the scientific approach , whatever is inconsistent with the facts ought to be discarded or revised .
As regards to the high inflation in Argentina , no government has yet found an effective solution .
The success of the corporation in the bitterly global market will depend on its ability to keep costs low .
By bending at different angles , wavelengths of color take unlike paths through the prism .
Even though the interest rates have gone down slightly , the number of our clients continues to increase .
The expansion of the universe implies that all the galaxies have rapidly been receding from each other .
What we really expect to find in a work of art is a certain personal element and a distinctive sensibility .
In his opening address at the annual conference , the chairman stressed the need to cut down on expenditure .
Bitter experiences lived at early ages will definitely affect one's later life in some way .
Former Russian oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky has been convicted of embezzlement at his second trial .
In developed countries , social security has been a main issue since the beginning of this century .
Nationalism was an enemy of Karl XII because it had led to the decline of his empire .
Thousands of people were killed and tens of thousands of refugees fled from their villages to the capital .
The recent currency crisis which has shaken Europe is a serious threat to the existence of the European Community .
The biggest mistake of many rich countries has been to leave their future economies to chance .
Unfortunately most people are prejudiced against modes of behaviour that are different from their own .
Alexander ruled for thirteen years but he achieved it better than what his father had planned .
Unlike many of the world's airlines , " North Airlines " has actually managed to make a profit this year .
He pointed out that small and medium-sized companies would particularly benefit from the customs union .
Ideally , research centres should encourage creative interaction among the people who work there .
Scientific research can cost extremely high , especially if it involves the use of expensive equipment .
This proved to be the final blow for a country already dependent on the outside world for survival .
Mankind is torn between the desire to be different from anybody else and the need to belong to a group .
Prior to his appointment as a president , Henry Kissinger was a professor of International Affairs at Harvard .
When I took power , most of the nation's wealth and land were in the hands of a small minority .
People believe that lawyers only want to influence the legal system to get what they want .
?If there is no improvement in sales , then we may have to reduce the work force even further .
Scientists lastly discovered black holes , the existence of which Einstein's theory predicted .
The simple fact of the matter is that people who speak only one language in this firm will never get ahead .
Elements are chemical substances that can not be broken down into anything simpler by chemical means .
It seems that the bad treatment of the hostages did not continue as at first they feared It would .
The article she has published is about the way matter behaves at very low temperatures .
The last issue of the journal contains all the arguments one could think of against globalisation .
In the post - war period higher education became one of the policy priorities for western governments .
To avoid the various foolish ideas to which mankind is prone , no superhuman genius is required .
Once a child starts school he finds himself in a much larger and far more complex social group .
Before World War II , Winston Churchill did not strike one as having any remarkable leadership qualities .
Global warming , aside from pollution , is one of scientists' biggest concerns .
Analysis of data is the first step in directing events towards a chosen goal .
Unemployment in Europe is again rising above ten per cent and does not seem likely to drop .
It is not likely that a personal assistant will be successful in her career without a knowledge of English .
Tim did not come home until late last night and he may have been spending time with his girlfriend .
Geographical conditions frequently have an impact on cultural interactions among communities .
The amount and severity of global warming depend on how much greenhouse gas we add to the atmosphere .
The idea that crime is becoming a less significant problem in India is completely misleading .
The committee believes the only way to make regulations work is to make them mandatory .
The reports we have received so far concerning the earthquake seem to be exaggerating the situation .
Animals and plants must adjust to their close environment in order to survive .
The reports we have received up to now concerning the disaster seem to be exaggerating the situation .
The president believes that the only way to make laws work is to make them mandatory .
All they want is to be left alone , but the orang-utans of Borneo are in peril of disappearing .
These children were not the average weight and height compared to the children at the same age level .
Unlike many of the world's airlines , " Blue Air " has actually managed to make a profit this year .
Even though siege has been going on for over a year , they are determined not to surrender .
If each employee obeys the orders of his superior , he is not likely to be criticized .
Intelligent students from primary schools can get scholarships to many of the best secondary schools .
In sunny days , plants receive far more energy through photosynthesis than they can use .
In 1054 there was an explosion of a giant star , the remnants of which can still be observed in space today .
No other quality is more significant for a scientist to acquire than to observe carefully .
Ever since the earliest time , man has always been interested in the stars and the structure of the universe .
Viewed from the moon , the earth appears as an oasis of life in the dark emptiness of space .
The deep and wide ditch surrounding the castle was always kept filled with water for the purpose of defense .
Were Isaac Asimov not a scientist , he might not be able to write such good science fiction stories .
The more you know about the people of a country the more you will enjoy visiting it .
I really did not plan to come to this school , but what happened last summer changed all that .
Vampire bat does not suck blood , it makes a small cut with its razor sharp teeth and lick the blood up .
It is not enough to say that good writers write good books and bad writers write bad books .
However beneficial some drugs may appear , they must nevertheless be employed carefully .
Two electrons rotating in opposite directions pull each other just as two magnets with opposite poles do .
Convicted cribbler Bernard Madoff's son Mark has committed suicide in his New York apartment .
Without doubt , Mustafa Kemal Pasha is one of the greatest figures in contemporary world history .
The thinner the ozone layer gets , the more cancer making ultraviolet rays reach the earth .
The more accurately the physician is able to diagnose an illness , the more effective the treatment will be .
North Korea says it will not retaliate despite reckless provocation from the South .
The 48 years old activist had hoped to attend award ceremony at the European Parliament .
Our products are extremely varied and include both the simple and the comparatively complicated .
The board made it clear that there would be no wage increases whatsoever in the near future .
Unless the government subsidizes cattle farming , a serious meat shortage is inevitable .
I would probably have reacted in a similar manner if I had been faced with the same problem .
The hope of a permanent peace depend on how well the interim arrangements can be made to work .
One thing is clear and that is there are strong opinions on both sides of the issue .
In the great fire of Pekin in 1666 , half of Pekin was burnt down but only 16 people were injured .
A society holding a cow as being sacred never eat this cow even on the verge of starvation .
Deforestation is causing an alarming decrease in the amount of farming area .
Educationists agree that the most satisfactory size for a language class is 17 .
Every foreign writer's perspective on China is shaped by the country , in which he grew up .
Fashion is a form of ugliness so intolerable that we have to alter it every six months .
History has seen wars which used less ammunition than a cease fire does today .
Those who spend all their time worrying about such things can not be considered normal .
Biologically , there is only one quality that distinguishes us from animals : the ability to laugh .
The increase in consumption has made maize import necessary in spite of growing production .
When someone wants to introduce me to a friend , I make a reason to do something else .
Have you submitted your report concerning the drug trafficking in the Mediterranean countries yet ?
The board made it clear that there would be no wage increase whatsoever in the near future .
All he could recall was a girl to whom he had been engaged three years previously .
Just imagine what it must be like to have a job that requires such a lot of travelling !
The older and larger trees can store much more carbon dioxide than a young tree can .
I remember you saying that whoever gets there first will have a major advantage .
Some people are able to adapt more easily to sudden changes in working conditions .
The Taj Mahal , which took twenty-two years to construct , is possibly the most beautiful building in the world .
After years of war the two countries have finally decided to sign a peace treaty .
I might not have noticed the bump in the road , but Sam pointed it out before it was too late .
Wasteful consumption of our natural resources may demolish our society as we know it .
People who drink too much alcohol may also lose the ability to distinguish subtle flavours .
The coach was satisfied neither with her own achievement nor with the team's performance .
Only if my safety is guaranteed in writing am I willing to join the experiment .
Suddenly , an invisible power pulled my attention to a couple who had just got on the bus .
There was a big explosion three weeks ago in the laboratory where jet engine was being tested .
People may refuse certain foods because of their religious and cultural habits .
They will ask you to show your identity card before you are allowed to enter the ministry .
Hard-liners on both sides have blocked all moves towards power sharing .
Even though he was reluctant at first to take on the job , he is now pleased he accepted .
The similarities between American and British English far outweigh the differences .
Even though he is known as a successful business man , I think he is really unhappy .
Supposing that these poets did find a publisher , could they find an audience today ?
Harmful insects cause billions of dollars worth of damage worldwide every year .
The research covers all the area it has aimed to and is an exemplary piece of work .
In the development of nuclear science and technology the neutron has played a most important role .
There is a variety of purposes for which engineering students need English .
However favourable the national circumstances , success for every company is not ensured .
Scarcely had the injured boy arrived at the hospital , he was rushed into the operating room .
It was unanimously agreed by the board that a new plant should be opened in Norway .
On the contrary , many Southern European countries have made great strides in child care .
An observer will not see a rainbow unless there are drops of water suspended in the air .
When I first arrived here from India with my husband in 1979 , we were desperately poor .
To me it is a useless effort to look for fingerprints on the falsified documents .
Bill was pleased to have been chosen for the job from among many applicants .
The low pressure coming from the Baltic countries will bring about a change in the weather .
It was generally agreed by the board that a new plant should be opened in Sweden .
Until the 1980s most of the wellknown newspapers had their offices in Fleet Street .
There is not even a consensus on what a historical novel is or ought to be .
Doctors have known for over 100 years of the power of hypnosis to alleviate pain .
It is obvious that so long as we can not find a better one , we have to live in this house .
Coffee in different countries may have different amounts of caffeine and different tastes .
Our future is in the hands of people who use their heads instead of their hands .
A great deal of research has been done recently on the possible causes in AIDS .
The sales campaign was so successful that the profits for the year nearly doubled .
A helicopter will join the search for him on Monday if high winds die down .
Some people have built bomb shelters in case there should be a nuclear war .
A stethoscope is an instrument for studying sound generated inside the human body .
A good artist like a good engineer learns as much from his mistakes as from achievement .
Activities like gardening and swimming help to release mental tension .
US envoy Bill Richardson says the situation on the peninsula is a tinderbox .
Hundreds of thousands of people cured of cancer owe their lives to radiation .
I would have to wait to see if she had obeyed my instruction .
It is no longer possible to ignore environmental factors when making investments .
This magazine contains pictures simplified for children under eleven .
This liberal ideology of individualism is a basic part of the American national identity .
Urgent measures must be taken immediately to prevent an epidemic in the earthquake area .
It will be difficult for both sides to accept the consequences of their own decisions .
We believe the only way to make regulations work is to make them mandatory .
One of the great matters facing the world today is the shortage of food .
There is only one tea plant , but there are lots of different varieties of tea .
Some scientists think that the keys to memory storage are chemical .
Propose what they may , we are not going to accept their views on this matter .
A nation which produces manufactured goods is known as an industrialized nation .
What may be considered polite in a country may be interpreted as arrogant in another .
The more he attempted to overcome his shyness , the more overwhelmed he felt .
I could not help admiring her effective manner in dealing with the problem .
New Zealand was the first country in the world to give women in 1893 the right to vote .
Between 1985 to 1989 food production per capita dropped in very many countries .
He was pleased with the hotel we found for him as it was clean and quiet .
The behavior of a person can usually be explained by that person's state of mind .
You ought to have warned us that she was likely to interfere with our work .
The private sector , he thinks , needs more competition to flourish .
To be forced for economic reasons to take boring job is unfortunate .
It is supposed that the first plants to appear on earth lived in the sea .
France's newspaper market continues to flourish with relatively stable prices .
As far as I know the meeting of the governors has been postponed indefinitely .
The audience has to believe that what you are going to offer is going to be interesting .
The decision comes 39 years after the country was renamed Sri Lanka .
The company accountant , charged with misuse , has been put on trial .
Each family of bees makes up one colony or group , and each group inhabits a hive .
What is the annual income of workers in the building trades in your country ?
The growth of industrialism in the West is concerned with the growth of democracy .
Medical students have to follow a course lasting for six or seven years .
The economy nowadays enters another phase that impacts the unemployment rate .
If this treatment does not work , there are also other techniques that can be used .
How long will you have been studying English by the Time you finish this course ?
All you have to do is choose the car that best fits your needs .
My idea of a good life is interesting work , enough money , and plenty of exercise .
In today's world , our personal security is largely our financial security .
Many petrol stations in Scotland are ran out of fuel because of the snow .
The Mexican government said his death was a severe blow to the cartel .
In some respects , the line between childhood and adulthood is fading .
Is a man allowed to have more than one wife at a time in Turkey ?
Never in my life have I come across a Roman statue in such a good condition .
Apparently , no one was willing to admit that he had behaved badly .
In the next century there will be twenty million fewer people in Europe than today .
She is the only person with enough experience and expertise to carry out this scheme .
A child is " legitimate " if its parents are married when it is born .
Whatever verdict the court gives , the public will always regard him as guilty .
The student dismissed from the school refused to take another exemption test .
Some researchers studied the effect of emotions on memory .
Harry was going 80 miles per hour and he got a ticket for speeding .
There are many reasons for encouraging young people to go to college .
Even though Timet did not love Hector , she married him for his money .
Will you have learned everything about English by the end of this course ?
The children started a fire and they must have been playing with matches .
We were advised to visit Ephesus early in the day before it got too hot .
The fact that you can understand this sentence does not prove that you are literate .
The future belongs to people who use their heads instead of their hands .
The fact that you can understand this idea does not prove that you are literate .
Most people like to see in pictures what they would like to see in reality .
Jack neither worried nor cared about the results of the exam .
It must have been raining for a long time and the water level is very high .
The suspect was soon convicted as there was so much evidence against him .
Finding out what the customer wants is more important than anything else .
As anxiety makers , examinations are second to none .
If she had not lived far away , mother would have visited us more often .
After trying three times , Connie finally passed her driver's test .
Every mother gazes in wonderment at the marvel that she has given birth to .
In an economic recession , most companies know what they need to do .
Manufacturers often spend large sums of money on advertisements .
By noon tomorrow we will have travelled more than a thousand kilometres .
It is possible to draw some calculations from the data given .
The news report is too significant to be glanced at .
Professional athletes have to watch their diets constantly .
Debbie neither attends the biology lecture nor goes to the laboratory .
There can be no economic development in the absence of environmental responsibility .
I could have called Tim yesterday , but I thought she was busy .
It was not for nothing that economics was called “ the dismal science ”
I would sooner get the job done today than leave it till tomorrow .
Economics students require to be able to read in English .
Whenever I meet him he always brings up the problem of housing .
Before leaving on a trip , there are many things to take care of .
The head of South Korea's army , Gen Hwang Eui-don , has resigned .
The more attention he received , the embarrassed he seemed to become .
When a ray of light enters a prism at an angle , its pace changes .
Vultures in Africa's Masai Mara reserve have declined by 60 % .
Miss Adams had given the biology lecture before I arrived .
You may take your salary in foreign currency , should you so wish .
The most popular hot beverages in the world are coffee and tea .
Our teacher does not permit us to chew gum in class .
The government wants the country's new name to be used .
You can make analyses by making changes in the program .
He complains unceasingly , but nobody takes him seriously .
You should have taken your umbrella because it is raining .
China and Russia have both called on South Korea to calm down .
In spite of being a beginner , I had fun skiing .
His doctor allowed him to exercise moderately .
Either Timmy or Marrienne will come , but not both of them .
Workers across Europe are being called out on strike .
As if he were not tired , Oscar stayed up very late .
The school is closing an hour later than usual tomorrow .
No matter what they say , we shall not give up the struggle .
The Pacific is the biggest and deepest ocean in the world .
If you back down now , they will always harrow you .
Mercury is the smallest planet of the solar system .
Very few events can be more frightful than a nuclear war .
The solar system consists of the sun and nine planets .
Steve went to Miami Beach in spite of its crowds .
Sex and age are no barriers to physical training .
I would have liked to have invited a few more people .
Tony likes tea better , but I like coffee .
Most metals conduct heat better than wood .
Each of the cars has a different design .
Our class is supposed to begin at 3 : 00 .
A new student feels lonely at first .
Why , after all , should the critic have the last word ?
I regretted ever having written the letter .
You can not bring your dictionary to the exam .
I am furious and disappointed .
You are talking as if you were an expert .
It is unfair to my fans and to me .
Neil Armstrong walked on the moon first .
Teachers can make mistakes too .
I was not able to finish my homework .
Ice melts in hot water .
